Spiced Chocolate Crinkle Cookies
The secret to these easy holiday cookies is using melted chocolate and oil instead of butter. The oil and chocolate allow the crinkle to form while baking. Play around with the spices and create an original combination!
Ingredients
½ cup vegetable oil
4 oz unsweetened chocolate, melted and cooled
2 cups granulated sugar
1 tsp pure vanilla extract
4 eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp ground cinnamon
½ tsp ground cayenne pepper
1 cup icing sugar
Preparation
In a medium bowl, sift together flour, baking powder, salt and spices and set aside. In a large bowl, combine vegetable oil, melted chocolate, sugar and vanilla with a wooden spoon.
Beat in eggs, one at a time. Fold in the flour mixture, cover with plastic wrap and chill for at least 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350F. Line cookie sheets with parchment paper. Sift icing sugar into a wide shallow bowl. Drop chilled dough by tablespoons into icing sugar and roll to form into a ball. Place cookies about 2” apart on cookie sheet.
Bake cookie 8-10 minutes, until just set. Take care not to overbake. Remove cookies to cooling rack immediately.

Chocolate Chip Cookies
Say goodbye to chocolate chip cookies that turn out like hockey pucks
This recipe is chewy and crispy with tons of flavour. Great for an ice cream sandwich, dunking in milk or just on their own!
Ingredients
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
¾ cup granulated sugar
¾ cup dark brown sugar
1 tsp corn syrup
2 eggs, room temperature
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tsp Kosher salt
¾ tsp baking soda
1 8 oz semisweet chocolate bar, hand chopped
Coarse sea salt
Preparation
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, salt and baking powder, set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugars together until doubled in volume and lighter in colour, 8-10 minutes. Add the eggs one at a time, mixing the first one in entirely before adding the second. Add the corn syrup and vanilla, mix until incorporated.
Mix in the prepared flour mixture and chopped chocolate, mix until incorporated. Using a 1 oz scoop, scoop cookie dough onto a parchment lined baking sheet, cover with plastic wrap and chill overnight.
When ready to bake, Preheat oven to 325F. Prepare 3 rimmed cookie sheets with parchment paper. Place cookies on baking sheet at least 3” apart and sprinkle tops with a small amount of coarse sea salt. Transfer cookie sheets to oven and bake until golden brown around the edges, 12-15 minutes, rotating pans halfway through baking.
Cool for 5 minutes of baking sheet and then transfer to wire rack to cool entirely. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days, or as long as they last!

Milk Chocolate Digestive Cookies
Tempering chocolate can be challenging for bakers, but if you follow this recipe, it’ll be a snap.
Ingredients
1 cup whole wheat flour
⅓ cup all-purpose flour
⅓ cup wheat bran
¼ cup packed light brown sugar
½ tsp salt
⅔ cup cold unsalted butter, cubed
1 - 2 tbsp milk
3 cups chopped milk chocolate
Preparation
Preheat oven to 350 F. Line two rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Set aside.
In a food processor, pulse together flours, wheat bran, sugar and salt. Add butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Gradually add milk until dough is moistened and holds together when squeezed.
Turn dough out onto counter and knead gently to bring together.
How to make a perfect chocolate cookie:
Flour counter and roll dough to scant ¼-inch thick. Cut into rounds and place on prepared baking sheets.
Bake 16 - 18 minutes, until firm and edges begin to brown. Cool for two minutes on pan, then remove to a wire cooling rack to cool completely.
While cookies are baking, melt ¾ of the chocolate in a large heat-proof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water. Melt chocolate to 45 C. Remove from heat and add reserved chocolate. Continue stirring until temperature reaches 27 C. Briefly place bowl over simmering water and heat chocolate gently to 29 - 30 C.
Dip one face of each cookie into tempered chocolate, then make a criss-cross pattern in the chocolate with the tines of a fork. Place — chocolate side up — on cooling racks to dry.
Preparation Time: 55 Minutes
Servings: Makes 18 cookies

Phil’s Chickpea Chocolate Mint Chip Cookies
A delicious gluten, nut, and dairy free, plant-based cookie that still tastes just as good as the other, glutenous cookies out there. Chickpeas add a protein packed punch to every bite while chocolate and mint keep everything festive!
Ingredients
1 cup pitted Medjool dates
1 (540 mL/19 oz) can chickpeas, drained
1/2 cup coconut syrup
3/4 cup cocoa powder
1/4 cup sunflower seed butter
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp mint extract
1 tsp vanilla
1 cup non-dairy dark chocolate chips
Icing sugar to dust
Preparation
Soak the dates in boiling water for 20 minutes or until soft. Drain the liquid from the dates and add dates to a food processor.
Preheat oven to 350F. Line a baking tray with parchment paper and set aside.
Add the remaining ingredients to the food processor and blend until mixture is smooth and creamy. Transfer cookie dough to a bowl. Stir in chocolate chips.
Scoop heaping tablespoons of dough 2 to 3 inches apart onto the prepared baking sheet. Flatten with the back of a spoon.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until tops start to crack. Let cookies cool on baking sheet for five minutes before transferring to a cooling rack.  Using a sieve, dust tops of cookies lightly with icing sugar.
Servings: Makes 12 cookies
